Hi, everyone, in this lecture, we are going to introduce the this keyword.
All right, so a functions this keyword represents or references an execution context for that call,
a context in which that call was being made, and that is determined entirely by how the function is
called.
In other words, the this key word assignment of a function.
If you look at that function that has the this key word in it, it's assigned based upon how the function
is called.
Right.
Which is the counterintuitive part, because most people think that you could look at a function and
figure out whether this keyword is going to point out.
But the definition of the function doesn't matter at all to determining the rescuer.
The only thing that matters is how does that function gets invoked, get invoked.
If that sounds familiar to you, it's because we have sort of already talked about a flexible reuseable
context.
Right.
Like, very briefly, it was when we talked about when we we talked about the scopes, the lexical scope,
the block scope.
We just talked about the dynamic scope for like a few seconds, very briefly.
So in other words, that this keyword is JavaScript version of a dynamic scope.
And it's a way of having a flexible, reusable behavior.
Right now, we have here a code snippet, right?
So and I'm just going to go ahead and explain to you, if JavaScript were to be like a dynamically scoped
language, how this code would run and what would we see inside the console?
I mean, that's not what we are going to see inside the console because JavaScript doesn't have a dynamic
scope.
We can mimic the behavior of a dynamic scope using this key keyword.
But before going there, what is this dynamic SCO saying here we have a variable declaration movie,
Avatar, and we have a function that says other movie inside this function, we have a console log that
points to this variable movie, and then we have another function that says other other movie.
And the other movie is called Inside This other other movie.
See, it's called Inside.
And at the end, we just call the other other movie.
So whenever we I call this, this function is going to get invoked.
And when this function gets invoked, we are going to we are going to call the other movie function
and then this function is going to invoke get invoked.
But what what this movie is going to what is going to be the value of this movie?
Now we know what the value is going to be.
The value is going to be Avatar because console lock is going to this console is not defined in the
scope of this function.
So in a lexically scoped language, when we cannot find a reference to a variable, we just or to a
property or to a method, we just go one level up and when we go one level up, we can see the reference
is right here.
So we passed the loops.
We just passed the avatar in here.
And what does this movie name?
So the movie name is actually a parameter.
The parameter is going to have an argument of The Godfather.
So we are going to have Avatar and Avatar and The Godfather.
Now, this is what a lexical scope language would do.
But if we had if we had a dynamic scope, what then?
What then would happen is this movie because this function, other movie is called From Inside This
Function.
This movie variable will have pointed to this movie and we would have seen District nine.
Instead of Avatar, so because this is not a dynamic language, and if I save it, we just see Avatar
and The Godfather.
OK, so this is how dynamic scope's they work.
Now, we know that this might seem weird, that this movie is going to come from here, and that's because
we are used to thinking lexically, not dynamically.
Now, what the this keyword is going to do for us is it is going to like I like to imitate the behavior
of a dynamically scop language.
So let's go over let's go ahead on this console, this comment, this one out.
And what I'm going to do is I'm just going to paste this code in here and I'm going to say example I
could say example to even though this was our example.
One example.
Example one, and I'm just going to say dynamic scoping, let's remove that, let's save it and let's
come here and let's face it.
So what I'm going to do is I'm also going to grab this and I'm going to put it right here and I'm going
to change it to see Black Panther to save it.
Oops.
I shouldn't have saved it.
That ruined the surprise I was I was trying to do so.
We do have here a new method that we have not used so far.
And this is the call method.
And for that, before even talking about this code, I'm just going to paste in this comment.
And this is oops, I did it again.
I don't know why I'm doing it.
Just just ignore the console.
Ignore what you saw there.
Right.
Because we are going to go over that.
If you want to read about this call method, you're going to go ahead and go to this Web page and you
can read about it.
This is documentation.
All right.
So in here we have like we still have our other movie.
OK, we have our other other movie.
But inside this other other movie, we have an object.
OK, now there are four ways to call a function.
And starting from our next lecture, we are going to talk about all of those function calls in like
in depth, the reason that we are going to talk about it, because they are directly related to this
key word, OK?
All right, so in here, whenever I call this other other movie, this function is going to get invoked
and when dysfunction is going to get invoked, we are going to see my context object that has one property
in it.
And then we are going to see other movie, which is dysfunction get called by the columnist.
Another call method accepts an object and an argument.
So this is the argument.
My context is coming.
So and then in here inside the console log, we have this movie right now.
We have to my contexts right now.
I told you, just ignore what you saw inside the console because that was I shouldn't have done that.
I ruined the surprise.
Now I'm going to talk about it now in the lexically scoped language, when we cannot find this reference
to this console, we are going to go one level up.
We do go one level up.
But what about this?
Inside the parentheses, we know that's what this movie name is going to be.
Actually, this is not movie name.
I should just change it to movie description.
Let me just go ahead and copy it and put it right here as well.
So this is movie description because this is movie name and we know what this says it is going to be.
This is coming.
So that part is clear.
What about this?
So what is this in this context?
So this is going to refer to a dynamic scope.
Right.
And we can find out what this points are whenever we go to the call site.
Where is the call side for this function?
It is on line number thirty two.
In my case, this is the call side.
So in the call side, we can see that we have other movie that call my context.
So the first part is my context and then we have our argument.
So what is this my context?
This my context has inside of it a movie key.
OK, if this key were to be something else, we were we wouldn't be able to use this this keyword for
this key word.
Right.
So that this keyword is going to refer to this my context and it is going to say dot movie.
It is like whenever you grab an object and you want to access a property of that object, you just use
the dot notation.
So think of this.
So in this case, the this keyword is actually this object.
It is referring to this object.
Why this object?
Because and why not this object?
You can see that lexically scoping that this should refer to the to the to the let my context, which
is inside the which is in the global scope.
And we saw how it worked inside our first example.
But the this keyword is going to mimic.
A dynamic, dynamic scope kind of situation, right, so dynamically instead of going up, instead of
grabbing this, it is going to take a look at where the function is called, the function is called
right here.
And we have in my context.
All right.
And that my context is going to be the thing that this is going to be referring to.
So you can think of this as that.
This is as my context, that movie.
We have an object and we have we want access a property from that object, which is movie, and we use
the dot notation.
So this is going to refer to my context instead of referring to this, because now we are talking dynamically
about the Diski work.
And if I save it, we can see that we have Avatar.
Now, if you're wondering, I'm just going to copy this and I'm going to bring it out.
Now, if the movie is called Outside, this other movie is called Outside Online Numbers.
Thirty five now.
And in this case, what the this keyword is going to point out, we have four for us to be able to understand
what the this keyword is pointing out, we should go all the way to where that function is called and
take a look at how that function is called.
So this function is called again with the call method.
The call method accepts an object.
And then we have this simple string.
Right.
Which which does nothing, basically.
And I'm just going to say, not right now.
What is this my context this my context has been specified in here and inside that we have a property
called movie.
So if I were to save this, we should see one this key word that points to Avatar and the next this
key word should point to this movie because this my my context is in the global scope.
So it should point at this one.
Right.
Let's save it, and in here we can see the Black Panther two is not coming and then Avatar is coming.
All right.
So we can see that.
F if the my context is inside, the global scope is going to point to that, if it is inside the function
scope, it is going to point to that.
We don't know where it is, wherever it is that this key word is going to point out that.
Right.
So this is going to be it for this lecture.
Now we know what the this keyword is, what it does and how it provides us with, like, this dynamic
flexibility.
Right.
And and by the way, that's why did this key word exists.
It exists, it was created so we can invoke functions in these different contexts.
That's it for this nature.
See you guys in the next one.